Python basics writing python code (#119)
arcus/education_modules: python_basics_writing_python_code/python_basics_writing_python_code.md

<!--

author:   Meredith Lee
email:    leemc@chop.edu

> version:  0.0.1

Reviewer: ```suggestion
version:  1.0.0
```

module_template_version: 2.0.0
language: en
narrator: UK English Female

> title: Module Title

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Python Basics: Writing Python Code
```

@learning_objectives

</div>

## Introduction to Python code

Python is a flexible, multi-purpose programming language that has applications in web development, software engineering, and data analysis. Part of its power and much of its popularity comes from the fact that it is **human-readable**, with a relatively simple syntax compared to many other programming languages. However, just like any language, there are some grammar rules to learn in order to use Python. In this module, we'll go through a few of the basics of Python that will build a foundation for your learning and practice.

### Functions and methods: Getting stuff done

In Python, there are two basic ways of taking something (such as text, a number, or a sequence) and performing some action on it: functions and methods.

Functions
======

**Functions** take the syntax `function(arguments)`: the name of the function, and then whatever you want to perform that function on (called **arguments**) in parentheses. A simple (but very useful) example of this is the `print()` function.

@sage
<div class="python">
<lia-keep>
<script type="text/x-sage">

print("Hello World!")
</script>
</lia-keep>
</div>

> The `print()` function takes an argument (in this case the phrase "Hello World!") and displays it as output.

Reviewer: Maybe bold argument, or otherwise emphasize it? It isn't an unfamiliar word, but might be worth emphasizing here since people might not be as comfortable with this usage.

Author: It's bolded a few lines up when I define the term, and I don't want to get too bold-happy or it loses all meaning lol. But maybe this is a better spot?

</div>

### Quiz: Functions and methods

Which of the following are valid examples of Python code? Select all that apply. Use the code cell below to check your knowledge by replacing the `x` argument in the `print()` function with code you're curious about.

[[X]] `len("Python is awesome!")`
[[X]] `"python".upper()`
[[X]] `type("4.3")`
[[X]] `type(True)`
***
<div class = "answer">
These are all examples of valid Python code! `print(type(4))` returns the type of the argument `4` (which is `int`, short for integer) and prints that output to the screen. `"python.upper()"` makes the string "python" all uppercase. `type("4.3")` might be a little tricky, since 4.3 is a decimal number (or **float**) but it's in quotation marks-- but those quotation marks just mean that, in this case, "4.3" is a string! `type(True)` might also be tricky, since at first it looks like a string that doesn't have the required quotation marks. However, `True` and `False` are special in Python, and have the type `boolean`.  
</div>
***

@sage
<div class="python">
<lia-keep>
<script type="text/x-sage">

print(x)

</script>
</lia-keep>
</div>

## Variables

> Rather than passing a value (like a string or a number) directly to a function, we can also assign values to variables and pass those to functions. **Variables** are ways to store values and objects for use later.

Reviewer: Emphasize the word "assign" in this line for learners who aren't used to this usage.

<div class = "important">
While strings in Python need to be in quotation marks, variable names do not. The reason that strings require quotation marks is so that Python knows that they aren't variables! Numbers and boolean values like `True` and `False` do not need quotation marks either, but you also cannot use numbers or boolean values by themselves as variable names (a mix of letters and number is okay).

If, for example, you typed `dogs` without defining it as a variable, you would get an error message that looks like this: `NameError: name 'dogs' is not defined`. Variables are defined (or declared) when you assign a value to them.  

</div>

### Quiz: Variables

> True or False: Once you assign a value to a variable, you can never change that value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
True or False: Once you assign a value to a variable, you can never change the value of that variable.
```

[( )] True
[(X)] False
***
<div class = "answer">
Changing the value of a variable is as simple as editing the value in the assignment statement and re-running the code; alternatively, you can write a new assignment statement assigning the updated value to the variable.
</div>
***

## Lists

**Lists** in Python are objects that contain a collection of multiple items. They are surrounded by square brackets [ ] and the items in the list are separated by commas:

@sage
<div class="python_link">
<lia-keep>
<script type="text/x-sage">

produce = ["tomato", "squash", "apple", "cucumber", "peach", "spinach"]
print(produce)

</script>
</lia-keep>
</div>

There are a few important characteristics of lists:

> * Lists can have duplicate values.

Reviewer: Maybe add an example, like [3,1,4,1,5,9] as a list with duplicates?

> * List items don't all have to be of the same type (you can have a mix of strings and numbers, for example, or even a list of lists).

Reviewer: Also an example here, maybe like [3.14, "pi", False]

    @sage
    <div class="python_link">
    <lia-keep>
    <script type="text/x-sage">

    produce.clear()
print(produce)

    </script>
    </lia-keep>
    </div>

  * `.append()` adds an element to the end of a list.

    @sage
    <div class="python_link">
    <lia-keep>
    <script type="text/x-sage">

    produce.append("pear")
print(produce)

    </script>
    </lia-keep>
    </div>

  * `.insert()` adds an element to a specific position.

    @sage
    <div class="python_link">
    <lia-keep>
    <script type="text/x-sage">

    produce.insert(0, "kale")
print(produce)

    </script>
    </lia-keep>
    </div>

  * `.extend()` adds another list to your list (or another iterable object, but don't worry about that for now).

    @sage
    <div class="python_link">
    <lia-keep>
    <script type="text/x-sage">
    berries= ["strawberry", "blueberry", "raspberries"]
produce.extend(berries)
print(produce)

    </script>
    </lia-keep>
    </div>

You'll notice that with each step, our list `produce` has been permanently changed-- in order to "start over" with the original list, we simply need to re-run the first code chunk.

<div class = "warning">

> The code cells above are linked, meaning that all of the cells "remember" the code that has been run previously (as they would be in a [notebook](https://liascript.github.io/course/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arcus/education_modules/update-intro-to-python/intro_to_python/intro_to_python.md#8)). Because of this, if you run them out of order, you can get unexpected results or even errors! If things aren't working like they should, re-run the first code cell on the page or hit your refresh button.

Reviewer: I'm going to borrow this warning and put it lots more places! really good warning!

Author: Go for it! It trips people up in Jupyter too, so I imagine there are a lot of places we can use a warning like this :)

For a sense of how loops work in Python, here is a simple example. Let's say there are five children at a party, and they each start with a certain number of pieces of candy. Next, let's say that we give each child 5 more pieces of candy. Using a simple loop, we can get a list of how many total pieces of candy each child has now using the `for` and `in` keywords.

@sage
<div class="python">
<lia-keep>
<script type="text/x-sage">

starting_candy = [3, 10, 11, 6, 7]
candy_day1 = [] #Here we are initiating an empty list, so that we can add elements to it later
for i in starting_candy: #In the loop, i will take on the value of each list element in turn
  j = i + 5
  candy_day1.append(j)
print(candy_day1)

</script>
</lia-keep>
</div>

<div class = "important">
Did you notice the explanatory text in the above code cell that started with a pound sign? The pound sign ( # ) in a code cell indicates the start of a **comment**. Comments aren't recognized as code and won't be run. Each line of a comment must be marked with a new pound sign. Comments are an excellent way to add brief explanations and clarifications about your code.
</div>

> This example loops through the list of numbers, adds 5 to each number one at a time, and adds the sum to a new list using the append() method for lists. Finally, we printed the new list to our screen. This kind of loop is sometimes called a for loop; there is another kind of loop called a while loop, which is often used when we don't know the number of times we'll have to iterate through a block of code before we start (check out this page for more information about while loops).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example loops through the list of numbers, adds 5 to each number one at a time, and adds the sum to a new list using the append() method for lists. Finally, we printed the new list to our screen. This kind of loop is sometimes called a **for loop**; there is another kind of loop called a **while loop**, which is often used when we don't know the number of times we'll have to iterate through a block of code before we start (check out this page for more information about while loops).
```

Also should there be a link to learn more about while loops?

Author: Oh yeah probably!

    </div>

* There isn't a method to add items to a dictionary, but it can be done! You can give the dictionary a new key and assign a value to it (notice that we're using bracket notation again). This is another example of a permanent change to our dictionary.

    @sage
    <div class="python_link">
    <lia-keep>
    <script type="text/x-sage">

    contact_info["work_email"] = "myname@company.com"
print(contact_info)

    </script>
    </lia-keep>
    </div>

  You can also use the same syntax with an exisitng key to assign a new value (note that the new value will **replace** the previous value).

### Quiz: Dictionaries

True or False: Duplicate key-value pairs are allowed in dictionaries.

[( )] True
[(X)] False
***
<div class = "answer">
While **values** can be repeated in a dictionary, each **key** must be unique. However, you can have multiple values for a key by putting those values in a list.
</div>
***

## It's Your Turn!

> Ready to practice what you've learned?

Reviewer: This feels like a pretty big jump for someone who just learned what a list is a few minutes ago. I wonder if there could be some scaffolding of this problem, or maybe a way to ensure that if they go back to read earlier pages they don't lose their work (although we have of course been struggling with the opposite problem with everything hanging around forever...)

Maybe a different phrasing would feel more accurate to the challenge level of the problem, like "can you combine all the things you just learned?" I'm mostly worried about someone doing this lesson, learning a lot, but then getting discouraged because they struggle with the problem and feel like they shouldn't be struggling (even though they should be struggling, that is part of learning!!)

Author: Yeah I was worried about this too... I'm leaning toward leaving it out to be honest, but I just love a good "put all the pieces together" practice problem! I'll think on this for the weekend, and either tweak or pull it dependning.

Reviewer 2: + 1 for a bit of scaffolding

90-100 = "A"

80-89 = "B"

70-79 = "C"

60-69 = "D"

< 60 = "F"

Your friend also sends you the class's final grades, along with the student identifiers:

st1: 88, st2: 78, st3: 34, st4: 97, st5: 64, st6: 89, st7: 56, st8: 83, st9: 92

Using a for loop and if-else statements, can you write some code that returns a dictionary with the student identifiers as the keys and the letter grades that the students should be assigned as the values? If you get stumped, look at the next page for one possible approach.

**Hint:** To loop through the items (the keys and values) of a dictionary that we'll call `my_dict`, you can use the code `for k,v in my_dict.items()`.

If you do glance at the answer, note that your code might look a little different; as long as you get the output you're looking for, that's okay!

@sage
<div class="python">
<lia-keep>
<script type="text/x-sage">

#Hint: You'll need the identifiers and the scores in your loop.
#If you get stuck, try googling something like "Python looping through items in a dictionary".

</script>
</lia-keep>
</div>

> ### Possible solution

Reviewer: Maybe add an intermediate partial solution so people who struggle can get some help but then also enter some of their own code before seeing a working solution?

Author: Ooooh I like that idea!

Reviewer 2: I like it too!

@sage
<div class="python">
<lia-keep>
<script type="text/x-sage">

final_scores_dict = {"st1": 88, "st2": 78, "st3": 34, "st4": 97, "st5": 64,"st6": 89, "st7": 56, "st8": 83, "st9": 92}
letter_grades_dict = {}
for k,v in final_scores_dict.items():
    if v >= 90:
        grade = "A"
    elif 89 >= v >= 80:
        grade = "B"
    elif 79 >= v >= 70:
        grade = "C"
    elif 69 >= v >= 60:
        grade = "D"
    else:
        grade = "F"
    letter_grades_dict[k] = grade
print(letter_grades_dict)

</script>
</lia-keep>
</div>

## Additional Resources

> The last section of the module content should be a list of additional resources, both ours and outside sources, including links to other modules that build on this content or are otherwise related.

Reviewer: Links!

Author: Haha whoops, forgot about this section

## Feedback

In the beginning, we stated some goals.

**Learning Objectives:**

@learning_objectives

We ask you to fill out a brief (5 minutes or less) survey to let us know:

* If we achieved the learning objectives
* If the module difficulty was appropriate
* If we gave you the experience you expected

> We gather this information in order to iteratively improve our work.  Thank you in advance for filling out [our brief survey](https://redcap.chop.edu/surveys/?s=KHTXCXJJ93&module_name=%22Module+Template%22)!

Reviewer: link to module name

> Remember to change the redcap link so that the module name is correct for this module!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

// Make *any* div with class 'r' a Sage cell
sagecell.makeSagecell({inputLocation: 'div.r',
                      evalButtonText: 'Run R',
                      languages: ["r"],
                      hide: ['fullScreen', 'permalink'],
                      });
// Make *any* div with class 'r_run' a Sage cell
sagecell.makeSagecell({inputLocation: 'div.r_run',
                      evalButtonText: 'Run R',
                      languages: ["r"],
                      hide: ['fullScreen', 'permalink'],
                      autoeval: 'true'
                      });
</script>
@end

-->

# Python Basics: Writing Python Code

<div class = "overview">

## Overview
@comment

**Is this module right for me?:** @long_description

**Estimated time to completion:** @estimated_time

**Pre-requisites:** Learners should be familiar with [Python as a programming language](https://liascript.github.io/course/?https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arcus/education_modules/update-intro-to-python/intro_to_python/intro_to_python.md#1), but need not have any experience with actually writing Python code.

**Learning Objectives**:

@learning_objectives

</div>

## Introduction to Python code

> Python is a flexible, multi-purpose programming language that has applications in web development, software engineering, and data analysis. Part of its power and much of its popularity comes from the fact that it is **human-readable**, with a relatively simple syntax compared to many other programming languages. However, just like any language, there are some grammar rules to learn in order to use Python. In this module, we'll go through a few of the basics of Python that will build a foundation for your learning and practice.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Python is a flexible, multi-purpose programming language that has applications in web development, software engineering, and data analysis. Part of its power and much of its popularity comes from the fact that it is **human-readable**, with a relatively simple syntax compared to many other programming languages. However, just like any language, there are some grammar rules (**syntax**) to learn in order to use Python. In this module, we'll go through a few of the basics of Python that will build a foundation for your learning and practice.
```

<div class = "important">
Tip: Some functions can be called on their own without any arguments, though this isn't common. The documentation for the function will tell you which, if any, arguments are required for that function. To call a function without any arguments, just leave the parentheses empty.
</div>

There are many [built-in functions in Python](https://docs.python.org/3/library/functions.html), which means to perform many tasks, you only need to call the function without downloading anything other than Python itself. A couple of examples are `abs()`, which takes a number as its argument and returns the absolute value of that number and `len()`, which returns the length of its argument (which can be a word, a phrase, a sequence, or a collection of items)

Methods
======

**Methods** in Python are very similar to functions, but are not precisely the same. The exact differences are not important to us right now, except that the syntax is a little different. Methods cannot be called by themselves; they are always called on an object, with the syntax `object.method()`.

> Let's look at an example:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Let's look at an example and try applying the `lower()` method:
```

</div>

### Quiz: Functions and methods

Which of the following are valid examples of Python code? Select all that apply. Use the code cell below to check your knowledge by replacing the `x` argument in the `print()` function with code you're curious about.

[[X]] `len("Python is awesome!")`
[[X]] `"python".upper()`
[[X]] `type("4.3")`
[[X]] `type(True)`
***
<div class = "answer">
These are all examples of valid Python code! `print(type(4))` returns the type of the argument `4` (which is `int`, short for integer) and prints that output to the screen. `"python.upper()"` makes the string "python" all uppercase. `type("4.3")` might be a little tricky, since 4.3 is a decimal number (or **float**) but it's in quotation marks-- but those quotation marks just mean that, in this case, "4.3" is a string! `type(True)` might also be tricky, since at first it looks like a string that doesn't have the required quotation marks. However, `True` and `False` are special in Python, and have the type `boolean`.  
</div>
***

> @sage

Reviewer 2: I'm not quite sure why this is here... is this so folks can practice?  If so, maybe say that.

Author: My reasoning was that I know when I'm not sure what code does or if it's the right syntax I'll just open the interpreter and try to run it, so I was trying to set up a similar situation here if folks might find that useful. I'll try to make the purpose more clear!

<div class = "important">
Tip: It's a good idea to use descriptive names for your variables! Python won't care if you decide to assign a value to the variable `x`, but it's helpful to anyone reading your code (including yourself in 6 months!) to have your variable names describe the value that it holds.
</div>

@sage
<div class="python">
<lia-keep>
<script type="text/x-sage">

dogs = 3
cats = 5
all_pets = dogs + cats
print(all_pets)
</script>
</lia-keep>
</div>

In the above example, we have defined variables to contain the number of dogs and the number of cats, and then used these variables in a calculation to get the total number of pets, which is itself assigned to a variable. The `all_pets` variable can then be used repeatedly later (maybe we want to calculate costs associated with feeding and housing all of these pets, for example, or how many collars we'll need). Now, if the number of dogs or cats changes, we can just change the value in the variable statement and re-run our code!

<div class = "important">

> While strings in Python need to be in quotation marks, variable names do not. The reason that strings require quotation marks is so that Python knows that they aren't variables! Numbers and boolean values like `True` and `False` do not need quotation marks either, but you also cannot use numbers or boolean values by themselves as variable names (a mix of letters and number is okay).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While strings in Python need to be in quotation marks, variable names do not. The reason that strings require quotation marks is so that Python knows that when you type "abc", you mean the **literal characters** "abc", and not some variable with the **name** `abc`.  

Numbers and boolean values like `True` and `False` do not need quotation marks either, but you also cannot use numbers or boolean values by themselves as variable names (but naming a variable using a mix of letters and number is okay).
```

Author: Much better phrasing, ty!

  <div class = "important">
  An **index** in Python refers to a value's position in a sequence. The sequence can be a collection object like a list or even a string (which you can think of as a sequence of characters). The important thing to remember is that in Python, **indices start at 0**. This means that the index of the first item in a sequence is `0`! This is not always the case in other programming languages.

  To access an item by its index, you use **subsetting notation**, `sequence[index]`. To get the first letter of the string "Hello", for example, you would use the code `"Hello"[0]`.
  </div>

* Lists are **changeable**; you can add, remove, and edit items in a list. There are a few ways to do this:

    * `.pop()` removes a specific element by **index**).

     @sage
     <div class="python_link">
     <lia-keep>
     <script type="text/x-sage">

     print(produce.pop(0))

     </script>
     </lia-keep>
     </div>

   * `.remove()` removes a specific element by **value**.

    @sage
    <div class="python_link">
    <lia-keep>
    <script type="text/x-sage">

    produce.remove("apple")
print(produce)

    </script>
    </lia-keep>
    </div>

>   * `del` deletes objects, and can be used as another way to remove elements of a list by index. The syntax will be a little different, because it is a keyword, not a list method. It is useful because it allows you to delete list elements in a slice. Slicing uses subsetting notation. the first index listed is **inclusive**, or included in the slice; this is followed by a colon; the second index listed is **exclusive**, or excluded from the slice; finally, these numbers are surrounded by square brackets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * `del` deletes objects, and can be used as another way to remove elements of a list by index. The syntax will be a little different, because it is a keyword, not a list method. It is useful because it allows you to delete list elements in a **slice**. Slicing uses subsetting notation to indicate where the slice begins and ends. The first index listed is **inclusive**, or included in the slice; this is followed by a colon; the second index listed is **exclusive**, or excluded from the slice; finally, these numbers are surrounded by square brackets.
```

    [( )] 6
    ***
    <div class = "answer">
    Indexing in Python begins with **0**, not 1, and so the index of 15, which is the fifth item in the list, is **4**.  
    </div>
    ***

## Loops

A Python list is an **iterable** object, or an object whose members can be returned one at a time. This is important in **loops**, which repeat (or iterate) the same operation for each element in an iterable object like a list.

For a sense of how loops work in Python, here is a simple example. Let's say there are five children at a party, and they each start with a certain number of pieces of candy. Next, let's say that we give each child 5 more pieces of candy. Using a simple loop, we can get a list of how many total pieces of candy each child has now using the `for` and `in` keywords.

@sage
<div class="python">
<lia-keep>
<script type="text/x-sage">

starting_candy = [3, 10, 11, 6, 7]
candy_day1 = [] #Here we are initiating an empty list, so that we can add elements to it later
for i in starting_candy: #In the loop, i will take on the value of each list element in turn
  j = i + 5
  candy_day1.append(j)
print(candy_day1)

</script>
</lia-keep>
</div>

<div class = "important">

> Did you notice the explanatory text in the above code cell that started with a pound sign? The pound sign ( # ) in a code cell indicates the start of a **comment**. Comments aren't recognized as code and won't be run. Each line of a comment must be marked with a new pound sign. Comments are an excellent way to add brief explanations and clarifications about your code.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Did you notice the explanatory text in the above code cell that started with a pound sign (or hash mark)? The pound sign / hash mark ( # ) in a code cell indicates the start of a **comment**. Comments aren't recognized as code and won't be run. Each line of a comment must be marked with a new pound sign. Comments are an excellent way to add brief explanations and clarifications about your code.
```

</div>

> This example loops through the list of numbers, adds 5 to each number one at a time, and adds the sum to a new list using the append() method for lists. Finally, we printed the new list to our screen. This kind of loop is sometimes called a **for loop**; there is another kind of loop called a **while loop**, which is often used when we don't know the number of times we'll have to iterate through a block of code before we start (check out this page for more information about while loops).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This example loops through the list of numbers, adds 5 to each number one at a time, and adds the sum to a new list using the `append()` method for lists. Finally, we printed the new list to our screen. This kind of loop is sometimes called a **for loop**; there is another kind of loop called a **while loop**, which is often used when we don't know the number of times we'll have to iterate through a block of code before we start (check out this page for more information about while loops).
```

</div>
***

## Conditional statements: If-else

Sometimes when you're working with Python, you might want your code to do different things in different circumstances. You handle this with an `if else`, or **conditional**, statement.

Conditional statements often make use of **comparison operators**. Comparison operators compare values and return a `True` or `False`, depending on the outcome of the comparison. Some important comparison operators include:

* `==`: In Python, this is used to test **equality** (be sure not to use  the single equals sign `=`, which is used for assigning values to variables). So `9 == 18` asks the questions "is 9 equal to 18?", which would evalulate to `False`.

* `!=`: not equal to.

* `<`: less than.

* `>`: greater than.

* `<=`: less than or equal to.

* `>=`: greater than or equal to.

Let's look at a simple example of some code that ultilizes conditionals.

@sage
<div class="python">
<lia-keep>
<script type="text/x-sage">

name = "Pythonista"

> if type(name) == str: #We're testing here to see if the value of name is a string. This will either evaluate to True or False.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
if type(name) == str: # We're testing here to see if the value of name is a string. 
                                    # This will either evaluate to True or False.
```

    print(contact_info.keys())

    </script>
    </lia-keep>
    </div>

* `.values()` returns a list of the dictionary's values.

    @sage
    <div class="python_link">
    <lia-keep>
    <script type="text/x-sage">

    print(contact_info.values())

    </script>
    </lia-keep>
    </div>

* `.items()` returns a list of the dictionary's key-value pairs as tuples (an object that holds multiple values, similar to a list, except that they are unchangeable). This may seem not very useful at first glance, but since different collection objects have different properties, there could be circumstances in which it is more useful to have the data in a different kind of object.

    @sage
    <div class="python_link">
    <lia-keep>
    <script type="text/x-sage">

    print(contact_info.items())

    </script>
    </lia-keep>
    </div>

* `.pop()` works similarly for dictionaries as it does for lists, except that it removes an element by its key.

    @sage
    <div class="python_link">
    <lia-keep>
    <script type="text/x-sage">

    print(contact_info.pop("email"))
print(contact_info)

    </script>
    </lia-keep>
    </div>

    <div class="warning">

>     Note that this change is permanent! If you want to keep the original dictionary as-is, you should make a copy of the dictionary by assigning it to a new variable, and then using `.pop()` on the copy. In this example though, all you need to do to restore the dictionary to its original form is re-run the first code cell or refresh the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Note that this change is permanent! If you want to keep the original dictionary as-is, you should make a copy of the dictionary (using the `.copy()` method and assigning the copy to a new variable), and then using `.pop()` on the copy. In this example though, all you need to do to restore the dictionary to its original form is re-run the first code cell or refresh the page.
```

I haven't tested this so doublecheck that `.copy()` works the way I think, or include an example of how to do this just below this section

    </div>

* There isn't a method to add items to a dictionary, but it can be done! You can give the dictionary a new key and assign a value to it (notice that we're using bracket notation again). This is another example of a permanent change to our dictionary.

    @sage
    <div class="python_link">
    <lia-keep>
    <script type="text/x-sage">

    contact_info["work_email"] = "myname@company.com"
print(contact_info)

    </script>
    </lia-keep>
    </div>

>   You can also use the same syntax with an exisitng key to assign a new value (note that the new value will **replace** the previous value).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  You can also use the same syntax with an existing key to assign a new value (note that the new value will **replace** the previous value).
```

Maybe show an example here?

**Hint:** To loop through the items (the keys and values) of a dictionary that we'll call `my_dict`, you can use the code `for k,v in my_dict.items()`.

If you do glance at the answer, note that your code might look a little different; as long as you get the output you're looking for, that's okay!

@sage
<div class="python">
<lia-keep>
<script type="text/x-sage">

#Hint: You'll need the identifiers and the scores in your loop.
#If you get stuck, try googling something like "Python looping through items in a dictionary".

</script>
</lia-keep>
</div>

### Possible solution

@sage
<div class="python">
<lia-keep>
<script type="text/x-sage">

final_scores_dict = {"st1": 88, "st2": 78, "st3": 34, "st4": 97, "st5": 64,"st6": 89, "st7": 56, "st8": 83, "st9": 92}
letter_grades_dict = {}
for k,v in final_scores_dict.items():
    if v >= 90:
        grade = "A"
    elif 89 >= v >= 80:
        grade = "B"
    elif 79 >= v >= 70:
        grade = "C"
    elif 69 >= v >= 60:
        grade = "D"
    else:
        grade = "F"
    letter_grades_dict[k] = grade
print(letter_grades_dict)

</script>
</lia-keep>
</div>

## Additional Resources

> * There are many helpful resources on [python.org](https://www.python.org/), including a [Beginner's Guide](https://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide) and FAQs (https://docs.python.org/3/faq/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* There are many helpful resources on [python.org](https://www.python.org/), including a [Beginner's Guide](https://wiki.python.org/moin/BeginnersGuide) and [FAQs](https://docs.python.org/3/faq/).
```

* [W3 Schools has bite-sized explanations and examples](https://www.w3schools.com/python/) if you want more clarity on how anything works.

> * Jupyter notebooks are a great option for doing data analysis with Python-- [check out this Jupyter notebook demo](https://jupyter.org/try-jupyter/lab/) to see how they work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Jupyter notebooks are a great option for doing data analysis with Python-- [check out this Jupyter notebook demo](https://jupyter.org/try-jupyter/lab/), then open "notebooks" and look at "Intro.ipynb" to see how they work.
```
